# DMA\_CHANNEL\_CALLBACK Typedef

**Parent topic:**[Direct Memory Access Controller \(DMA\)](GUID-FC435976-A639-435D-9C8F-0A08C3D59195.md)

## C

```c
typedef void (*DMA_CHANNEL_CALLBACK) (DMA_TRANSFER_EVENT event, uintptr_t contextHandle);

```

## Summary

Pointer to a DMA Transfer Event handler function.

## Description

This data type defines a DMA Transfer Event Handler Function. A DMA PLIB<br />client must register a transfer event handler function of this type to<br />receive transfer related events from the PLIB.

If the event is DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_BLOCK\_TRANSFER\_COMPLETE, this means that the data<br />was transferred successfully.

If the event is DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_ERROR, this means that the data was<br />not transferred successfully.

The other events passed are:

DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_START\_DETECTED<br />DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_TRANSFER\_ABORTED<br />DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_CELL\_TRANSFER\_COMPLETE<br />DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_HALF\_BLOCK\_TRANSFER\_COMPLETE<br />DMA\_TRANSFER\_EVENT\_LINKED\_LIST\_TRANSFER\_COMPLETE

The contextHandle parameter contains the context handle that was provided by<br />the client at the time of registering the event handler. This context handle<br />can be anything that the client considers helpful or necessary to identify<br />the client context associated with the DMA channel that generated the<br />event.

The event handler function executes in an interrupt context of DMA. It is<br />recommended to the application not to perform process intensive operations<br />with in this function.

## Remarks

None.

