# DMA\_ChannelLinkedListTransfer Function

**Parent topic:**[Direct Memory Access Controller \(DMA\)](GUID-FC435976-A639-435D-9C8F-0A08C3D59195.md)

## C

```c
bool DMA_ChannelLinkedListTransfer (DMA_CHANNEL channel, DMA_DESCRIPTOR_REGS* channelDesc)
```

## Summary

The function submits a list of DMA transfers.

## Description

The function will submit a list of DMA transfers. The DMA channel will<br />process all transfers in the list. The transfers will be processed in the<br />order in which they are added to the list. Each transfer in the list is<br />specified by a DMA\_DESCRIPTOR\_REGS type descriptor. The list is formed by linking<br />of the descriptors. While processing each descriptor in the linked list, the<br />DMA transfer settings will be updated based on the settings contained in the<br />descriptor.

It is possible to link the last descriptor in the list to the first<br />descriptor. This results in transfer sequence without disruption. Such type of<br />circular linked descriptor list are useful in audio applications.

The application must submit the entire list while calling the function.

When already a transfer is in progress, this API will return false indicating<br />that transfer request is not accepted.

## Precondition

DMA should have been initialized by calling DMA\_Initialize. The Transfer Linked Option in MHC should have been enabled.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|channel|The DMA channel on which the transfer needs to scheduled.|
|channelDesc|A pointer to a linked list of DMA\_DESCRIPTOR\_REGS type descriptor chain.|

## Returns

*True* - If transfer request is accepted.

*False* - If previous transfer is in progress and the request is rejected.

## Example

```c
// Process a transfer list called transferList. Refer to the DMA PLIB demo
// application example for more details on usage.

static DMA_DESCRIPTOR_REGS dmaDescRegs[3] = {0};
    
    // Populate the DMA linked list in dmaDescRegs
    DMA_LinkedListDescSetup();
    
    if (DMA_ChannelLinkedListTransfer(DMA_CHANNEL_0, dmaDescRegs) == true)
    {
        // do something else
    }
    else
    {
        // try again?
    }
```

## Remarks

None.

