# UARTx\_ErrorGet Function

**Parent topic:**[Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter \(UART\)](GUID-3C0B743B-4792-4E9A-AD13-6E911B56B2D0.md)

**Parent topic:**[Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter \(UART\)](GUID-E963A84D-73EE-4E3C-A248-B4FA24F54183.md)

**Parent topic:**[Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter \(UART\)](GUID-12BEB185-3D34-4589-A74C-34A758C5DAB7.md)

**Parent topic:**[Universal Asynchronous Receiver Transmitter \(UART\)](GUID-AA31911E-0C81-4A7D-A72F-20D9976E9E6E.md)

## C

```c
/* x = UART instance number */

/* Blocking, non-blocking and ring buffer mode */
UART_ERROR UARTx_ErrorGet( void )
```

## Summary

Gets the error of the given UART peripheral instance.

## Description

This function returns the errors associated with the given UART peripheral instance. Multiple error conditions may be active. The function return value should be matched against each member of the UART\_ERROR enumeration to handle all error cases. Calling the UARTx\_Read will clear the errors, hence error handling must be performed before.

*Blocking mode*

Calling this API clears the hardware errors

*Non-blocking and ring-buffer mode*

Error flags are saved in a register and hardware errors are cleared in the Error interrupt handler. Calling this API clears the error flags saved in the register.

## Precondition

UARTx\_Initialize must have been called for the associated UART UART instance.

## Parameters

None.

## Returns

Errors occurred as listed by UART\_ERROR.

## Example

```c
if ((UART_ERROR_OVERRUN & UART1_ErrorGet()) == UART_ERROR_OVERRUN)
{
    //Errors are cleared by the API call, take respective action
    //for the overrun error case.
}
```

## Remarks

UART errors are normally associated with the receiver. Hence, it is recommended to use this function in receive context only.

