# Watchdog Timer \(WDT\)

The Watchdog timer \(WDT\) is designed to give an added level of safety in critical systems, to ensure a system reset is triggered in the case<br />of a deadlock or other software malfunction that prevents normal device operation.

The Watchdog timer is a 12-bit down counter that allows a watchdog period of up to 16 seconds with a 32kHz slow clock. It should be fed periodically before it counts down to zero. If the timer counts down to zero, it can either reset the device or generate an interrupt.

**Using The Library**

The Watchdog Timer \(WDT\) runs independent of the rest of the system, causing system resets whenever it times out. However, the application software should ensure that the timeout never occurs by resetting the WDT periodically as long as the software is in a known healthy state.

If the system hangs or program execution is corrupted, the WDT will not receive its periodic reset, and will eventually time out and cause a<br />system reset.

In many systems, there is an obvious upper boundary to the amount of time each iteration of the main application loop can be expected to<br />run, before a malfunction can be assumed \(either due to a deadlock waiting on hardware or software, or due to other means\).

When the Watchdog is configured with a timeout period equal to this upper boundary, a malfunction in the system will force a full system reset to allow for a graceful recovery. The upper boundary is specified by a 12-bit Watch dog period value.

Here is an example code to keep clearing the watchdog timer at regular intervals

```c

while ( true )
{
    // Application Code

    WDT_Clear();
}
```

**Library Interface**

Watchdog Timer peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|WDT\_Initialize|Initializes given instance of the WDT peripheral|
|WDT\_Clear|Restart the WDT counter|
|WDT\_CallbackRegister|Sets the pointer to the function \(and it's context\) to be called when the Timeout events occur|

**Data types and constants**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|WDT\_CALLBACK|Typedef|Defines the data type and function signature for the WDT peripheral callback function|

-   **[WDT\_Initialize Function](GUID-45669C35-DA5A-4BC0-A003-3598818C5A25.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_Clear Function](GUID-063E1CC2-BCEA-427C-BC8E-D657591BDF41.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_CallbackRegister Function](GUID-CF1167F7-974C-456A-A216-A1966146CBB8.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_CALLBACK Typedef](GUID-E494FB1A-5B8A-43FD-A9A0-47196844652E.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[SAM A5D2 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F6605EDC-FC71-4081-8560-0C1681C1FA8D.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM A7G5 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-7EEB1AC5-4BFF-4259-97AD-8CF7367D7973.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM E70 S70 V70 V71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-6E45C146-6F6D-452A-A2E2-228C3CC905D7.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM G51 G53 G54 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E97B8116-033B-411A-925B-E8E6252A1E15.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM G55 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E3F1DCC4-CB31-4302-A60B-D2833C5CAD18.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH707 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C2AC236D-363B-4378-A381-B281F67C8647.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-AC9BE324-E486-46EA-8D16-E04E15288053.md)

