# Reinforced Safety Watchdog Timer \(RSWDT\)

The RSWDT works in parallel with the Watchdog Timer \(WDT\) to reinforce<br />safe watchdog operations.

The RSWDT is a 12-bit down counter that allows a watchdog period of up<br />to 16 seconds with a 32kHz slow clock. It should be fed periodically<br />before it counts down to zero. If the timer counts down to zero, it<br />will reset the device.

The RSWDT uses the Main RC oscillator divided clock \(frequency is<br />equivalent to Slow RC\) if the Main RC oscillator is enabled by the<br />application, or if the WDT is driven by the 32kHz Slow clock.

If the WDT clock source \(for example, the 32 kHz crystal oscillator\)<br />fails, the system lock-up is no longer monitored by the WDT and the<br />RSWDT performs the monitoring with the Main RC oscillator and resets<br />the device.

**Using The Library**

The RSWDT module runs independent of the rest of the system, causing<br />system resets whenever it times out. However, the application software<br />should ensure that the timeout never occurs by resetting the RSWDT<br />periodically as long as the software is in a known healthy state. If<br />the system hangs or program execution is corrupted, the RSWDT will not<br />receive its periodic reset, and will eventually time out and cause a<br />system reset.

In many systems, there is an obvious upper boundary to the amount of<br />time each iteration of the main application loop can be expected to<br />run, before a malfunction can be assumed \(either due to a deadlock<br />waiting on hardware or software, or due to other means\). When the RSWDT<br />is configured with a timeout period equal to this upper boundary, a<br />malfunction in the system will force a full system reset to allow for a<br />graceful recovery. The upper boundary is specified by a 12-bit watch<br />dog period value.

**Window Mode**

In many system, there is also lower boundary to the amount of time each<br />iteration of the main application loop can be expected to run. To guard<br />against a system failure resetting the Watchdog in a tight loop \(or a<br />failure in the system application causing the main loop to run faster<br />than expected\) a watch dog delta value can be specified to disallow<br />resetting of the Watchdog counter before a certain period of time. Any<br />attempt to reset the watchdog when the watchdog counter has not counted<br />down to the delta value results in device reset.

**Library Interface**

Reinforced Safety Watchdog Timer peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|RSWDT\_Initialize|Initializes given instance of the RSWDT peripheral|
|RSWDT\_Clear|Restart the RSWDT counter|
|RSWDT\_CallbackRegister|Sets the pointer to the function \(and it's context\) to be called when the Timeout events occur|

**Data types and constants**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|RSWDT\_CALLBACK|Typedef|Defines the data type and function signature for the RSWDT peripheral callback function|

-   **[RSWDT\_Initialize Function](GUID-4A03EBC7-02D5-410B-997A-1A7CEAEAAEDC.md)**  

-   **[RSWDT\_Clear Function](GUID-2558BA26-4ABF-43FD-B3E0-507A1EF59DAD.md)**  

-   **[RSWDT\_CallbackRegister Function](GUID-C9D9B053-92FE-484D-9B1C-B5EF21EC913E.md)**  

-   **[RSWDT\_CALLBACK Typedef](GUID-3CD2D7FB-D6ED-4FA4-97C5-80EEF0161C4F.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[SAM E70 S70 V70 V71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-6E45C146-6F6D-452A-A2E2-228C3CC905D7.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH707 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C2AC236D-363B-4378-A381-B281F67C8647.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-AC9BE324-E486-46EA-8D16-E04E15288053.md)

