# Clock Generator \(CLOCK\)

The Clock Generator user interface is embedded within the Power<br />Management Controller. The Clock system generates and distributes the<br />clock for the processor and peripherals.

**Clock Generators:**

The Clock Generator is made up of:

-   Oscillators

    -   A low-power 32.768 kHz oscillator supporting crystal and<br />resonators \(referred to as "32.768 KHz crystal oscillator" throughout<br />the document\)

    -   An embedded always-on, slow RC oscillator generating a<br />typical 32 kHz clock

    -   A 12 to 50 MHz oscillator supporting crystals, resonators and<br />Bypass mode \(referred to as "main crystal oscillator" throughout the<br />document\)

    -   A main RC oscillator generating a typical 12 MHz clock

-   A set of 7 fractional-N PLLs with an input frequency range of<br />12 to 50 MHz and an internal frequency range of 600 to 1200 MHz,<br />namely:

    -   CPUPLL

    -   SYSPLL

    -   DDRPLL

    -   IMGPLL

    -   BAUDPLL

    -   AUDIOPLL

    -   ETHPLL


The Clock Generator provides the following clocks:

-   MD\_SLCK-Monitoring domain slow clock. This clock, sourced from the<br />always-on slow RC oscillator only, is the only permanent clock of<br />the system and feeds safety-critical functions of the device \(WDT,<br />RSTC, SCKC, frequency monitors and detectors, PMC startup time<br />counters\).

-   TD\_SLCK-Timing domain slow clock. This clock, sourced from the<br />32.768 kHz crystal oscillator or the always-on slow RC oscillator, is<br />routed to the RTC and RTT peripherals.

-   MAINCK-Output of the main clock oscillator selection. This clock is<br />either the main crystal oscillator or the main RC oscillator.

-   PLL Clocks-Outputs of embedded PLLs


The Power Management Controller provides the following clocks:

-   Main System Bus Clocks \(MCKx\)-clock signals that are the root clock<br />of a group of peripherals. They are programmable from a few hundred Hz<br />to the maximum operating frequency of the peripheral group. MCK0 is the<br />main system bus clock associated to all peripherals that are<br />synchronous with the processor.

-   Processor Clock \(CPU\_CLK\)-can be tuned through a frequency scaler<br />module and automatically switched off when entering the processor in<br />Sleep mode.

-   Free-running Processor Clock \(FCLK\)-the source clock of<br />CPU\_CLK. Is not affected when Sleep mode or the frequency scaler is<br />activated.

-   Peripheral Clocks with independent on/off control, provided to the<br />peripherals. Each peripheral clock is inherited from one of the MCKx<br />clocks.

-   Programmable Clock Outputs \(PCKx\), selected from the clock<br />generator outputs to drive the device PCKx pins.

-   Generic Clock \(GCLK\) with controllable division and on/off control,<br />independent of MCKx and CPU\_CLK. Provided to selected peripherals.<br />Refer to the table "Peripheral Identifiers" for more details on GCLK<br />availability per peripheral.


**Using The Library**

The Clock peripheral library initializes the clock system as configured<br />by the user in the MHC Clock configurator. It can be accessed via the<br />"Tools" drop down of the MPLAB harmony configurator menu bar.

**Library Interface**

Clock Generator peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|CLK\_Initialize|Initializes hardware of the System Clock and Peripheral Clock|

-   **[CLK\_Initialize Function](GUID-7FCC76BB-89CC-4012-9B76-EE5B36D8B26C.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[SAM A7G5 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-7EEB1AC5-4BFF-4259-97AD-8CF7367D7973.md)

