# Static Memory Controller \(SMC\)

This Static Memory Controller \(SMC\) is capable of handling several<br />types of external memory and peripheral devices, such as SRAM,

PSRAM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM, LCD Module, NOR Flash and NAND Flash.

The SMC generates the signals that control the access to external<br />memory devices or peripheral devices. It has 4 Chip Selects and a 26-

bit address bus. The 16-bit data bus can be configured to interface<br />with 8- or 16-bit external devices. Separate read and write control

signals allow for direct memory and peripheral interfacing. Read and<br />write signal waveforms are fully parametrizable.

The SMC can manage wait requests from external devices to extend the<br />current access. The SMC is provided with an automatic Slow

Clock mode. In Slow Clock mode, it switches from user-programmed<br />waveforms to slow-rate specific waveforms on read and write signals.

The SMC embeds a NAND Flash Controller \(NFC\). The NFC can handle<br />automatic transfers, sending the commands and address cycles

to the NAND Flash and transferring the contents of the page \(for read<br />and write\) to the NFC SRAM. It minimizes the CPU overhead.

The SMC includes programmable hardware error correcting code with<br />one-bit error correction capability and supports two-bit error<br />detection.

In order to improve the overall system performance, the DATA phase of<br />the transfer can be DMA-assisted.

The External Data Bus can be scrambled/unscrambled by means of user<br />keys.

**Using The Library**

Static Memory Controller \(SMC\) is initialized as configured in the MHC<br />as part of System Initialization.

**Library Interface**

Static Memory Controller peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|SMC\_Initialize|Initializes Static Memory Controller \(SMC\) interface|

-   **[SMC\_Initialize Function](GUID-B8663280-184D-4476-B129-9F5D1E15084C.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[SAM A5D2 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F6605EDC-FC71-4081-8560-0C1681C1FA8D.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM A7G5 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-7EEB1AC5-4BFF-4259-97AD-8CF7367D7973.md)

