# Clock Generator \(CLOCK\)

The Clock system generates and distributes the clock for the processor<br />and peripherals. **The Clock Generator is made up of**:

-   A low-power 32768 Hz crystal oscillator with Bypass mode

-   A low-power embedded 32 kHz \(typical\) RC oscillator

-   A 3 to 20 MHz crystal or ceramic resonator-based oscillator,<br />which can be bypassed.

-   A factory-trimmed embedded RC oscillator. Three output<br />frequencies can be selected: 8/16/24 MHz. By default 8 MHz is selected.

-   Two programmable PLLs, \(PLLA input from 20 to 300 KHz, output clock<br />range 48 to 120 MHz and PLLB input from 20 to 100KHz, output clock<br />range 24 to 48MHz\), capable of providing the clock MCK to the processor<br />and to the peripherals.


**The Clock Generator provides following clocks**:

-   SLCK, the slow clock, which is the only permanent clock within the<br />system.

-   MAINCK is the output of the main clock oscillator selection: either<br />the crystal or ceramic resonator-based oscillator or 8/16/24 MHz RC<br />oscillator.

-   PLLACK is the output of the 48 to 120 MHz programmable PLL \(PLLA\).

-   PLLBCK is the output of the 24 to 48MHz programmable PLL \(PLLB\).


The Power Management Controller \(PMC\) optimizes power consumption by<br />controlling all system and user peripheral clocks. The PMC<br />enables/disables the clock inputs to many of the peripherals and the<br />Cortex-M4 processor.

**The PMC provides the following clocks:**

-   MCK, the Master Clock, programmable from a few hundred Hz to the<br />maximum operating frequency of the device. It is available to the<br />modules running permanently, such as the Enhanced Embedded Flash<br />Controller.

-   Processor Clock \(HCLK\) , automatically switched off when entering<br />the processor in Sleep Mode

-   Free-running processor Clock \(FCLK\)

-   The Cortex-M4 SysTick external clock

-   Peripheral Clocks, provided to the embedded peripherals \(USART,<br />SPI, TWI, TC, etc.\) and independently controllable. Some of the<br />peripherals can be configured to be driven by MCK divided by 2, 4, 8.

-   Programmable Clock Outputs \(PCKx\), selected from the clock<br />generator outputs to drive the device PCK pins

-   Clock sources independent of MCK and HCLK, provided by internal<br />PCKx for FLEXCOM \(USART/SPI/TWI\), Timer, ADCC and PDMIC


**Using The Library**

The Clock peripheral library initializes the clock system as configured<br />by the user in the MHC Clock configurator. It can be accessed via the<br />"Tools" drop down of the MPLAB harmony configurator menu bar.

**Library Interface**

Clock Generator peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|CLOCK\_Initialize|Initializes the clock for system and peripherals|

-   **[CLOCK\_Initialize Function](GUID-B20B7C1D-72D7-48F2-BF71-688A22936393.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[SAM G55 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E3F1DCC4-CB31-4302-A60B-D2833C5CAD18.md)

