# Memory Protection Unit \(mpu\)

The Memory Protection Unit \(MPU\) divides the memory map into 8 or 16 regions, and defines the start address, size, memory type, data access permission, and instruction access permission.

**Using The Library**

Configure the peripheral library using the MCC.

The Memory Protection Unit \(MPU\) divides the memory map into 8 or 16 regions, and defines the start address, size, memory attributes, data access permission, and instruction access permission.

Memory Attributes:<br />Memory attributes can used to define the memory type and cache behavior.

Strongly Ordered: The processor preserves the transaction order, and the write buffers are not permitted.

Device Memory: The processor preserves the transaction order, and the write buffers are permitted for device access. Device memory is used for memory mapped peripheral registers.

Normal Memory: The processor can re-order transactions for efficiency, or perform speculative reads.

-   Write through cache: On hits it writes to the cache and the main memory. On misses it updates the block in the main memory by not bringing that block to the cache.

-   Write-back cache: On hits it writes to the cache setting the dirty bit for the block, and the main memory is not updated. On misses it updates the block in the main memory not bringing that block to the cache.

-   Write-back with write allocate: On hits it writes to the cache setting dirty bit for the block, the main memory is not updated. On misses it updates the block in the main memory and brings the block to the cache.

-   Non-cacheable memory


Data Access Permission:

Data access permission can be used to define FLASH as read-only to protect it from accidental writes and define the non-accessible region to detect stack overflow conditions.

|AP|Access permission|
|--|-----------------|
|000|User: No Access, Privileged: No Access|
|001|User: No Access, Privileged: Read/Write|
|010|User: Read only, Privileged: Read/Write|
|011|User: Read/Write, Privileged: Read/Write|
|100|Reserved|
|101|User: No Access, Privileged: Read only|
|110|User: Read only, Privileged: Read only|
|111|User: Read only, Privileged: Read only|

Instruction Access Permission:

Instruction access permission can be used to define non-executable memory region.

**Library Interface**

Memory Protection Unit peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|MPU\_Initialize|Initializes the Memory Protection Unit|

-   **[MPU\_Initialize Function](GUID-17D91616-3F4B-4214-A783-0C519F31F623.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM JH00 JH01 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-05924E45-D6B3-4F33-A5EA-9B080FC421D8.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM LE00 LS00 LS60 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F80F1B47-C3E4-4803-ACB6-D30AC5EB7B45.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM MC00 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-ADF45DC0-B32C-4D1F-9332-59EC0DF5097E.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CX BZ2 WBZ45 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-3D519D00-FDEE-4A3E-9EF7-20F335E64CEE.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CX BZ3 WBZ3 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-5752DD6D-6E5D-484D-B564-DA87788492F3.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CX MT Peripheral Libraries](GUID-EEA7836F-956F-4526-BF85-CD488C4CE708.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CZ-CA Peripheral Libraries](GUID-7EAC3718-3D58-4007-AB2A-A0E3C167A2DF.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM C20 C21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-49072E61-B7F2-4B32-952E-D6F5FB361AFB.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM D51 E51 E53 E54 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E33B93DD-6680-477E-AA96-966208DC9A50.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM E70 S70 V70 V71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-6E45C146-6F6D-452A-A2E2-228C3CC905D7.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM G51 G53 G54 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E97B8116-033B-411A-925B-E8E6252A1E15.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM G55 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E3F1DCC4-CB31-4302-A60B-D2833C5CAD18.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L1X Peripheral Libraries](GUID-D259BBBC-6BC2-4F69-849B-C06DF4DDD5F8.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L22 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C3997EBF-87A0-4DD9-BCB0-C8A58B62E44B.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH707 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C2AC236D-363B-4378-A381-B281F67C8647.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM RH71 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-AC9BE324-E486-46EA-8D16-E04E15288053.md)

