# Reset Controller \(RSTC\)

The Reset Controller collects the various reset sources and generates<br />reset for the device and allows the reset source to be identified by<br />the software.

-   **Power On Reset:**The device contains a poweronreset<br />\(POR\) detector, which keeps the system reset until power is stable.<br />This eliminates the need for external reset circuitry to guarantee<br />stable operation when powering up the device.

-   **VDDCORE Brown Out Reset:**BOD12 will reset the device if a<br />voltage of 1.2 V or below is observed on the I/O pin supplying power to<br />the MCU core \(VDDCORE\).

-   **VDDANA Brown Out Reset:** BOD33 resets the device if the<br />voltage on the VDDANA pin falls below a value configured by the SYSCTRL

-   **Watchdog Reset:** The watchdog reset occurs when it times out

-   **System Reset:**The System Reset Request is a software reset<br />generated by the CPU when asserting the SYSRESETREQ bit located in the<br />Reset Control register of the CPU

-   **External Reset:**A external reset is generated when a low<br />level is detected on the RESET pin


Resets are divided into two modes based upon the source of the reset.

-   Power Resets include resets generated by POR, BOD12, and BOD33.

-   User Resets consist of the external reset, WDT, and the software<br />reset instruction


Both power and user reset causes the device to restart and set most<br />registers of the MCU to a preset state. The difference between the two<br />modes is how they affect the Real Time Clock, the 32 K oscillator, and<br />the WDT. The underlying reasoning for having two reset modes is to<br />protect the operation of the WDT and the RTC from nonpower related<br />anomalies.

**Using The Library**

The reset controller \(RSTC\) peripheral library provides API to find the<br />cause of last device reset

**Library Interface**

Reset Controller peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|RSTC\_ResetCauseGet|Reports the cause of the last reset|
|RSTC\_BackupExitCauseGet|Reports the cause of the Backup Exit|

**Data types and constants**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|RSTC\_RESET\_CAUSE|Typedef|Identifies the type of reset|
|RSTC\_BKUPEXIT\_CAUSE|Typedef|Identifies the cause for Backup reset|

-   **[RSTC\_ResetCauseGet Function](GUID-F9114EE2-02F3-4B3A-9AB7-567D398A3B22.md)**  

-   **[RSTC\_BackupExitCauseGet Function](GUID-EAFB7548-A22E-4033-9289-05EA978EDF6E.md)**  

-   **[RSTC\_RESET\_CAUSE Typedef](GUID-ACBA10AD-C6BE-417C-A742-1D64D99C9F37.md)**  

-   **[RSTC\_BKUPEXIT\_CAUSE Typedef](GUID-0220E55E-5711-43D7-B19C-1BE6D327D4E5.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM JH00 JH01 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-05924E45-D6B3-4F33-A5EA-9B080FC421D8.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM LE00 LS00 LS60 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F80F1B47-C3E4-4803-ACB6-D30AC5EB7B45.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM MC00 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-ADF45DC0-B32C-4D1F-9332-59EC0DF5097E.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM C20 C21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-49072E61-B7F2-4B32-952E-D6F5FB361AFB.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM D51 E51 E53 E54 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E33B93DD-6680-477E-AA96-966208DC9A50.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L1X Peripheral Libraries](GUID-D259BBBC-6BC2-4F69-849B-C06DF4DDD5F8.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-230EF724-3CDA-4F88-8E42-0EF4C1CA112D.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L22 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C3997EBF-87A0-4DD9-BCB0-C8A58B62E44B.md)

