# RTC\_Timer16PeriodSet Function

**Parent topic:**[Real-Time Counter \(RTC\)](GUID-3578D06D-FEC5-4769-ADC7-0D46730CD973.md)

**Parent topic:**[Real-Time Counter \(RTC\)](GUID-C95E1695-55CC-4546-9F2C-315F5C908FC1.md)

## C

```c
void RTC_Timer16PeriodSet ( uint16_t period )
```

## Summary

Set the 16-bit timer period value.

## Description

This function sets the 16-bit timer period value. The counter value will be compared against the period value and a period expiry event will occur when the counter matches the period. If the library is configured for interrupt mode and if a event handler function has been set through the RTC\_Timer16CallbackRegister\(\) function, the event handling function will be called. Additionally the RTC\_Timer16CounterHasOverflowed\(\) function will return true. When the match occurs, the counter will be reset and the counting will start again.

Setting the period to a non-zero value will cause the timer counter to operate as a timer that counts up to a specific value and resets. Setting the period to 0 will cause the timer counter to operate as counter, using the full range of the 16-bit timer, that can be used to measure a time duration.

## Precondition

RTC\_Initialize must have been called for the associated RTC instance. The RTC peripheral should have been configured in 16-bit Timer Counter mode.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|period|timer period value|

## Returns

None.

## Example

```c
uint16_t period = 0x0FFF;
RTC_Initialize();
RTC_Timer16PeriodSet(period);
RTC_Timer16CounterSet(0);
RTC_Timer16Start();
while(!RTC_Timer16CounterHasOverflowed());
```

## Remarks

The RTC\_Timer16Start\(\) should typically be called after the period has been set.

