# I2Cx\_Write Function

**Parent topic:**[Inter-Integrated Circuit - I2C](GUID-9FF2770C-87B8-47A2-830B-AA9EB23ACFEC.md)

**Parent topic:**[Inter-Integrated Circuit - I2C](GUID-84B7C9F3-533A-4A83-9104-9196F8070FF2.md)

## C

```c
/* x = I2C instance number */

/* I2C master mode */
bool I2Cx_Write(uint16_t address, uint8_t *pdata, size_t length)
```

## Summary

Writes data to the slave.

## Description

This function writes data to a slave on the bus. The function will attempt to write length number of bytes from pdata buffer to a slave whose address is specified by address. The I2C Master will generate a Start condition, write the data and then generate a Stop Condition. If the slave NAKs the request or a bus error was encountered on the bus, the transfer is terminated. The application can call the I2Cx\_ErrorGet function to know the cause of the error. The function is non-blocking. It initiates bus activity and returns immediately. The transfer is then completed in the peripheral interrupt. A transfer request cannot be placed when another transfer is in progress. Calling the write function when another function is already in progress will cause the function to return false. If a callback was registered, the library will call the registered callback function when the transfer has completed.

## Precondition

I2Cx\_Initialize must have been called for the associated I2C instance.

## Parameters

|Param|Description|
|-----|-----------|
|address|7-bit / 10-bit slave address.|
|data|pointer to source data buffer that contains the data to betransmitted.|
|length|length of data buffer in number of bytes. Also the number of bytesto be written.|

## Returns

*true* - The request was placed successfully and the bus activity was initiated.

*false* - The request fails, if there was already a transfer in progress when this function was called.

## Example

```c
uint8_t myData [NUM_BYTES];
void MyI2CCallback(uintptr_t context)
{
    // This function will be called when the transfer completes. Note
    // that this function executes in the context of the I2C interrupt.
}

I2C1_Initialize();
I2C1_CallbackRegister(MyI2CCallback, NULL);

if(!I2C1_Write( SLAVE_ADDR, &myData[0], NUM_BYTES ))
{
    // error handling
}

```

## Remarks

None.

