# Power Manager \(PM\)

The Power Manager \(PM\) controls the sleep modes of the device. There<br />are two main types of sleep modes available:

-   Idle sleep mode: The CPU stops executing code, no peripheral are<br />disabled. All interrupt sources can wake up the device

-   Standby sleep mode: The user can configure peripherals to be<br />enabled or not using the respective RUNSTDBY bit. This means that power<br />consumption is highly dependent on what functionality is enabled.


**Using The Library**

The power manager peripheral library provides API to enter Idle Sleep<br />mode and Standby Sleep mode.

**Idle Mode:**

The IDLE mode allows power optimization with the fastest wake-up time.

The IDLE is entered by executing the Wait For Interrupt \(WFI\)<br />instruction with IDLE written to the Sleep Mode bit group in the Sleep

Configuration register \(SLEEPCFG.SLEEPMODE written to 0x2\). The device<br />will exit IDLE when it detects any non-masked interrupt.

**Standby Mode:**

Standby mode is the lowest power configuration while keeping the state<br />of the logic and the content of the RAM. Standby mode is entered by<br />executing the WFI instruction with STANDBY written to the Sleep Mode<br />bit group in the Sleep Configuration register \(SLEEPCFG.SLEEPMODE<br />written to 0x4\). The device will exit STANDBY on any asynchronous<br />interrupt.

The Peripherals can still perform tasks as long as the Run in Standby<br />bit in the peripheral's control register is written. This will enable<br />the peripheral to run while in STANDBY. If in addition the clock source<br />is set to run on demand, the oscillator will only be enabled when<br />requested by a peripheral.

**Library Interface**

Power Manager peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|PM\_Initialize|Initializes given instance of PM peripheral|
|PM\_IdleModeEnter|Puts the device in Idle mode|
|PM\_StandbyModeEnter|Puts the device in standby mode|
|PM\_BackupModeEnter|Puts the device in backup mode|
|PM\_OffModeEnter|Puts the device in off mode|
|PM\_IO\_RetentionSet|Turns on I/O retention when exiting HIBERNATE or BACKUP mode|
|PM\_IO\_RetentionClear|Turns off I/O retention. To be called after exiting HIBERNATE or BACKUP mode|

-   **[PM\_Initialize Function](GUID-BCD65583-3580-44D9-8F17-E70645AC5A36.md)**  

-   **[PM\_IdleModeEnter Function](GUID-893725F2-64BE-49CA-B799-469FFE443CF2.md)**  

-   **[PM\_StandbyModeEnter Function](GUID-2C9E59AB-D8D9-40BD-88AE-C0C434DE25B6.md)**  

-   **[PM\_BackupModeEnter Function](GUID-5166DF71-CC02-4809-8EDE-0E4E49132471.md)**  

-   **[PM\_OffModeEnter Function](GUID-A901A74E-8D38-4230-B011-2B960C4C30F6.md)**  

-   **[PM\_IO\_RetentionSet Function](GUID-C46E9C1E-432D-45A7-AF6F-7508D627599D.md)**  

-   **[PM\_IO\_RetentionClear Function](GUID-079EF63A-5A54-4BEC-8E38-C5A9499BED95.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM JH00 JH01 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-05924E45-D6B3-4F33-A5EA-9B080FC421D8.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM LE00 LS00 LS60 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F80F1B47-C3E4-4803-ACB6-D30AC5EB7B45.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM MC00 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-ADF45DC0-B32C-4D1F-9332-59EC0DF5097E.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM C20 C21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-49072E61-B7F2-4B32-952E-D6F5FB361AFB.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L1X Peripheral Libraries](GUID-D259BBBC-6BC2-4F69-849B-C06DF4DDD5F8.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-230EF724-3CDA-4F88-8E42-0EF4C1CA112D.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L22 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C3997EBF-87A0-4DD9-BCB0-C8A58B62E44B.md)

