# FLEXCOMx\_USART\_ErrorGet Function

**Parent topic:**[Flexible Serial Communication Controller \(FLEXCOM\)](GUID-137968B9-4089-44C6-9B5A-2F30929F6852.md)

**Parent topic:**[Flexible Serial Communication Controller \(FLEXCOM\)](GUID-1F0CC449-4122-4C77-A199-A7874C524FDD.md)

## C

```c
/* x = FLEXCOM instance number */

/* Blocking, non-blocking and ring buffer mode */
FLEXCOM_USART_ERROR FLEXCOMx_USART_ErrorGet( void )
```

## Summary

Gets the error of the given FLEXCOM USART peripheral instance.

## Description

This function returns the errors associated with the given USART peripheral instance. Multiple error conditions may be active. The function return value should be matched against each member of the USART\_ERROR enumeration to handle all error cases. Calling the FLEXCOMx\_USART\_Read will clear the errors, hence error handling must be performed before.

*Blocking mode*

Calling this API clears the hardware errors

*Non-blocking and ring-buffer mode*

Error flags are saved in a register and hardware errors are cleared in the Error interrupt handler. Calling this API clears the error flags saved in the register.

## Precondition

FLEXCOMx\_USART\_Initialize must have been called for the associated FLEXCOM USART instance.

## Parameters

None.

## Returns

Errors occurred as listed by FLEXCOM\_USART\_ERROR. This function reports multiple FLEXCOM USART errors if occurred.

## Example

```c
if (FLEXCOM_USART_ERROR_OVERRUN & FLEXCOM0_USART_ErrorGet())
{
    //Errors are cleared by the API call, take respective action
    //for the overrun error case.
}
```

## Remarks

FLEXCOM USART errors are normally associated with the receiver. Hence, it is recommended to use this function in receive context only.

