# Watchdog Timer \(WDT\)

The Watchdog timer \(WDT\) is designed to give an added level of safety in critical systems, to ensure a device reset is triggered in the case of a deadlock or other software malfunction that prevents normal device operation.

When enabled, the WDT is a constantly running timer that is configured to a predefined time-out period. Before the end of the time-out period, the WDT should be set back, or else, a system Reset is issued.

**Using The Library**

The Watchdog Timer \(WDT\) runs independent of the rest of the system, causing system resets whenever it times out. However, the application software should ensure that the timeout never occurs by resetting the WDT periodically as long as the software is in a known healthy state.

If the system hangs or program execution is corrupted, the WDT will not receive its periodic reset, and will eventually time out and cause a<br />system reset.

In many systems, there is an obvious upper boundary to the amount of time each iteration of the main application loop can be expected to run, before a malfunction can be assumed \(either due to a deadlock waiting on hardware or software, or due to other means\).

When the Watchdog is configured with a timeout period equal to this upper boundary, a malfunction in the system will force a full system reset to allow for a graceful recovery.

**Early Warning**

In some cases it is desirable to receive an early warning that the Watchdog is about to expire, so that some system action \(such as saving any system configuration data for failure analysis purposes\) can be performed before the system reset occurs.

The Early Warning feature of the Watchdog module allows such a notification to be requested; after the configured early warning time \(but before the expiry of the Watchdog counter\) the Early Warning flag will become set, so that the user application can take an appropriate action.

It is important to note that the purpose of the Early Warning feature is not to allow the user application to reset the Watchdog; doing so will defeat the safety the module gives to the user application. Instead, this feature should be used purely to perform any tasks that need to be undertaken before the system reset occurs.

Here is an example code to enable watchdog timer and keep clearing at regular intervals

```c
WDT_Enable();

while ( true )
{
    // Application Code

    WDT_Clear();
}
```

**Library Interface**

Watchdog Timer peripheral library provides the following interfaces:

**Functions**

|Name|Description|
|----|-----------|
|WDT\_Initialize|Initializes given instance of the WDT peripheral|
|WDT\_Enable|Enables the WDT peripheral|
|WDT\_Disable|Disables the WDT peripheral|
|WDT\_TimeoutPeriodSet|Set WDT Timeout Period|
|WDT\_Clear|Restarts the WDT counter|
|WDT\_ClearWithSync|Restarts the WDT counter with write sync|
|WDT\_CallbackRegister|Sets the pointer to the function \(and it's context\) to be called when the Early Warning event occurs|

**Data types and constants**

|Name|Type|Description|
|----|----|-----------|
|WDT\_CALLBACK|Typedef|Defines the data type and function signature for the WDT peripheral callback function|

-   **[WDT\_Initialize Function](GUID-45669C35-DA5A-4BC0-A003-3598818C5A25.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_Enable Function](GUID-C2250206-CDE0-4ACC-A7E2-974D26EECBB6.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_Disable Function](GUID-F0AE58EF-593E-409A-9DA7-1572D2031C47.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_TimeoutPeriodSet Function](GUID-5F53F742-E567-4057-B942-1C0C5EA146C4.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_Clear Function](GUID-063E1CC2-BCEA-427C-BC8E-D657591BDF41.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_ClearWithSync Function](GUID-CE51B57A-F7FE-48B8-B705-707A9FFABE20.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_CallbackRegister Function](GUID-CF1167F7-974C-456A-A216-A1966146CBB8.md)**  

-   **[WDT\_CALLBACK Typedef](GUID-E494FB1A-5B8A-43FD-A9A0-47196844652E.md)**  


**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM JH00 JH01 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-05924E45-D6B3-4F33-A5EA-9B080FC421D8.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM LE00 LS00 LS60 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-F80F1B47-C3E4-4803-ACB6-D30AC5EB7B45.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CM MC00 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-ADF45DC0-B32C-4D1F-9332-59EC0DF5097E.md)

**Parent topic:**[PIC32CZ-CA Peripheral Libraries](GUID-7EAC3718-3D58-4007-AB2A-A0E3C167A2DF.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM C20 C21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-49072E61-B7F2-4B32-952E-D6F5FB361AFB.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM D51 E51 E53 E54 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-E33B93DD-6680-477E-AA96-966208DC9A50.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L1X Peripheral Libraries](GUID-D259BBBC-6BC2-4F69-849B-C06DF4DDD5F8.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L21 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-230EF724-3CDA-4F88-8E42-0EF4C1CA112D.md)

**Parent topic:**[SAM L22 Peripheral Libraries](GUID-C3997EBF-87A0-4DD9-BCB0-C8A58B62E44B.md)

